Evolution of the definition
===========================

Descartes pain concept
----------------------

pain is produced by a direct, straight-through transmission system from
injured tissues in the body to a pain center in the brain # Evolution of
the theory

Brain Imaging Biomarkers for Chronic Pain
=========================================

Following the same injury, clinical outcomes can be opposite ranging
from pain subsidization as the injury resolves within a normal healing
period to the development of chronic pain that can persist for years or
decades. Only a minority of patients remain in the latter, suggesting
that they are predisposed to develop chronic pain. It was shown that
brain function and moreover brain structure present some level of
heritability `(Thompson et al., 2001,
2013) <https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?broken=uf9mEK>`__. In WM,
evidence from molecular studies show the central role of gene-expression
in the gradients that guide axons to their target during brain
development `(Dickson, 2002; Goodhill,
2016) <https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?broken=j3TJzi>`__. However,
genetic influences are not uniformly distributed throughout the brain,
with phenotypic variation in certain regions and connections being under
stronger genetic control than others.\ `(Arnatkeviciute et al.,
2021 <https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?broken=RgImxA>`__) Therefore,
it would be interesting to compare the altered WM regions shown in this
study with a heteribility atlas.

Chronic pain may be the result of a maladaptive maladaptive CNS
plasticity. This theory notably supported by Herta Flor and Rohini Kuner
In the timeframe of a couple months, brain plasticity and structural
reorganization of synapses, cells and circuits can occur. It is thought
that maladaptive reorganization could contribute to the chronification
of pain. neurogenesis Pain can alter adult hippocampal neurogenesis.
Notably, proliferation of the neuroblast in the subventricular zone and
survival of the newborn neurons are negatively affected in neuropathic
pain. Interestingly, stress both exacerbates pain chronicity in humans
and inhibits hippocampal neurogenesis. Structure function change in glia
Post-mortem analysis, showed that only patients with painful neuropathy
showed increased astrocyte proliferation and activation. Recently,
integrated PET-MRI studies show higher TPSO-uptake in the thalamus and
the somatosensory cortex. Finally, genetically induced ablation of
oligodendrocyte in mice evokes classical symptoms of neuropathic pain
long before demyelation. This is important in light of the white-matter
tract defects and maladaptive regenerative plasticity observed in
chronic pain.

Tau protein could play an important role in the development of cognitive
impairment associated with chronic pain. In fact it is thought that
chronic pain leads to the accumulation of pathological forms of tau
protein in the hippocampus, resulting in neuronal atrophy and cognitive
impairment.

Neuroinflammation and microgliosis are also thought to affect the areas
of the brain involved in emotional and cognitive components of pain.
Free-water fraction (FW) and apparent fiber density (AFD) are two
recently developed diffusion MRI (DMRI) white matter (WM) measures
associated with neuroinflammation. Further investigation and correlation
using PET scan could be of interest. Notably, several studies have
underlined the potential of Diffusion MRI to investigate the glymphatic
system
